# Deployment of CyberRangeCZ Platform Helm application

This guide deploys CyberRangeCZ Platform Helm packages (https://github.com/cyberrangecz/devops-helm) to the Kubernetes cluster. You can use
Kubernetes cluster deployed by [tf-openstack-base](tf-openstack-base) or by [tf-aws-base](tf-aws-base) and [tf-aws-kube-base](tf-aws-kube-base).

1. Enter tf-head-services directory:\
`cd tf-head-services`

2. Create **deployment.tfvars** from template **deployment.tfvars-os-template** for OpenStack deployment and from **deployment.tfvars-aws-template** for AWS deployment
 and setup these **required** variables (common for OpenStack and AWS):
 * `acme_contact` - Let's encrypt contact email address
 * `gen_user_count` - number of user accounts that should be generated in local oidc issuer
 * `head_host` - FQDN or IP address of CyberRangeCZ Platform portal. Can be set to **cluster_ip** output from [tf-openstack-base](tf-openstack-base).
 * `users` - map of OIDC user accounts. Local OIDC issuer accounts are created in local Keycloak provider and registered in CyberRangeCZ Platform. For local OIDC issuer account uncomment "Example of a user from local Keycloak issuer" section in the template and replace **head_host** for **cluster_ip** output from [tf-openstack-base](tf-openstack-base).

Required variables for OpenStack:
 * `application_credential_id` - application credentials ID, which was generated for CyberRangeCZ Platform
 * `application_credential_secret` - application credential secret, which was generated for CyberRangeCZ Platform
 * `head_ip` - IP address of CyberRangeCZ Platform portal. Can be set to **cluster_ip** output from [tf-openstack-base](tf-openstack-base).
 * `kubernetes_api_url` - URL of Kubernetes API. Can be set to https://**cluster_ip**:6443 output from [tf-openstack-base](tf-openstack-base).
  * `os_auth_url` - OpenStack authentication URL, can be obtained in OpenStack project -> API access -> View Credentials -> Authentication URL

Required variables for AWS:
* `aws_config` - map with AWS settings

 You can also specify these optional variables:
 * `enable_monitoring` (OpenStack only) - Adds monitoring component to the deployment
 * `git_config` - Configuration for accessing private repositories
     * providers - hash with mappings of tokens to the GitLab instances URL
     * user - user with access to the private repositories over GitLab API
     * ansibleNetworkingUrl - ansible stage one repo URL (https://github.com/cyberrangecz/ansible-stage-one.git)
     * ansibleNetworkingRev - revision of ansible stage one repo
 * `helm_repository` - Repository with Helm packages
 * `tls_private_key` & `tls_public_key` - Base64 encoded custom tls certificate/key for CyberRangeCZ Platform portal. If one of them is not specified, both are generated by the CyberRangeCZ Platform Helm package (self-signed for IP  addresses and Let's Encrypt for FQDN).
 * `man_flavor` - OpenStack flavor or AWS instance type used by man nodes
 * `man_image` - OpenStack image or AWS AMI used for man nodes
 * `oidc_providers` - list of configurations of OIDC providers used for authentication. When empty, a local Keycloak provider will be utilized.
 * `openid_configuration_insecure` - Ignore invalid tls certificate of local Keycloak. Required if **enable_monitoring** is set to true and tls certificate of CyberRangeCZ Platform portal is not from trusted CA.
 * `prometheus_jobs` - List of custom Prometheus jobs to support custom monitoring targets, e.g., outside of sandbox topology.
 * `os_region` (OpenStack only) - OpenStack region name. Required if **enable_monitoring** is set to true
 * `sandbox_ansible_timeout` - Timeout for sandbox provisioning stage
 * `smtp_config` - SMTP configuration for Sandbox Service notifications
     * smtp_server - SMTP server FQDN
     * smtp_port - SMTP server port nuber (default 25)
     * sender_email - SMTP sender e-mail address
     * sender_email_password - password for SMTP sender account (required for encrypted communication)

3. Initialize Terraform:\
`tofu init`

4. Deploy Helm packages:\
   `tofu apply -var-file tfvars/deployment.tfvars`
